# Repo: I-RAT
This repository (https://github.com/BrianCollinss/iRAT) contains the JS/React code for the Irrigation Rapid Assessment Tool (i-RAT, https://i-rat.net), a discussion support system to rapidly assess economic and environmental impacts of different sugarcane irrigation practices. i-RAT is a rapid assessment-visualisation tool in an interactive web application to visualise the impacts of changed irrigation practices for sugarcane farmers and extension staff. Specifically, i-RAT compares these impacts regarding farm economics, water quality, productivity, carbon and nitrogen cycles, and greenhouse gas emission. The core of i-RAT is the sugarcane module from the Agricultural Production Systems sIMulator (APSIM) modelling platform. i-RAT was first developed for the Burdekin sugarcane growing region in Queensland (Australia’s largest sugarcane producing region). Various soil types and management scenarios representing farming practices in the Burdekin region were used for simulations (1971–2021) to generate a datacube. More information can be found in "i-RAT: A discussion support system to rapidly assess economic and environmental impacts of different sugarcane irrigation practices" ([link](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168169923007688)). Contact 'brcollins2020@gmail.com' to gain access. 
- Phase I (the Burdekin region): +171K scenarios | +61M simulated seasonal records.
- Phase II (the Mackay-Whitsunday region): +148K scenarios | +50M simulated seasonal records.

# Folder: UniSQ - SSAT
This folder contains the R code for the R Shiny application **Sesame Suitability Assessment Tool** (http://ssat.net.au/). Username and password: baci. SSAT, hosted on ARDC Nectar Research Cloud, leverages simulations generated by the new the Agricultural Production Systems sIMulator (APSIM)-Sesame model to assess the suitability of land and climate conditions for sesame cultivation across Australia. SSAT empowers users to conduct both spatial and point-based analyses across a grid of 101 locations encompassing the period 1981-2023. 
- V1: 864 scenarios | 3.75M simulated seasonal records | +161M simulated daily records.

# Folder: UniSQ - Short-Term Forecast for Irrigation Management
This folder contains the R code used in and the visualisation prepared for the research paper titled "Evaluating the impact of weather forecasts on productivity and environmental footprint of irrigated maize production systems" published in Science of The Total Environment ([link](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969724065240)). This study combines a crop model with a stochastic pseudo-weather forecast algorithm to: (1) determine the reliability needed in a weather forecast algorithm for effective irrigation management; and (2) assess the impact of weather forecast reliability on the productivity and environmental footprint of various maize cropping systems across diverse climates. It employs the Next Generation of Agricultural Production Systems sIMulator (APSIM NextGen) to simulate maize growth at eleven locations representing diverse climates globally. Various planting schedules, soil types, irrigation systems, and nitrogen availability levels were considered to examine the effects of perfect and imperfect weather forecasts. 
- 864 scenarios | 17M simulated seasonal records | +677M simulated daily records.

# Folder: UniSQ - Crop Monitoring Vietnam
This folder contains the Python and JS (GEE) code used in the Aus4Innovation (CSIRO/DFAT)-funded “Improving Crop Monitoring in Vietnam” project – a coordinated collaboration involving six partners across Australia and Vietnam aimed at delivering AI-enabled, cloud-based (WebGIS) crop-monitoring tools through stakeholder co-design. The Python code in the **01_Image_Processing** sub-folder was developed to (1) perform geometric correction and mosaicking of more than 930 GB of satellite (Sentinel-1/2, Landsat) and drone imagery, (2) clip the mosaicked outputs to the study region, (3) calculate 14 vegetation indices, (4) export processed rasters in TIFF and Cloud-Optimised GeoTIFF (COG) formats, and (5) merge all data sources and prepare output tables (CSV) for model training and evaluation. The JS code in the **01_Image_Processing** sub-folder was used to extract complementary datasets from Google Earth Engine (GEE). The Python code in the **02_ML sub-folder** was developed to prepare the imagery-derived datasets from the first phase (image processing) for model training and evaluation, and to train and test a wide range of ML and DL yield-prediction models

# Folder: UQ - Compound Dry-Hot Extremes
This folder contains the R code used in and the visualisation prepared for the research paper titled "Frequency of compound hot–dry weather extremes has significantly increased in Australia since 1889" published in Journal of Agronomy and Crop Science ([link]([https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969724065240](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jac.12545))). Daily data spanning the period 1889-2019 (131 years) were extracted from SILO gridded dataset at 700 grid cells (1◦ × 1◦) across Australia to calculate annual and seasonal mean daily maximum temperature (MMT) and total precipitation (TPR). A nonparametric multivariate copula framework was adopted to estimate the return period of compound hot-dry (CHD) events based on an ‘And’ hazard scenario (hotter than a threshold ‘And’ drier than a threshold). CHD extremes were defined as years with joint return periods of longer than 25 years calculated over the period 1889-2019. Mann-Kendall nonparametric tests were used to analyse trends in MMT and TPR as well as in the frequency of univariate and CHD extremes. 
- 700 grid cells | 33M daily records.
